# CovidCasesDataResearch

## Introduction
It is impossible to deny the widespread socioeconomic strain the world has witnessed over the past few years during the pandemic. However, little research exists on the effects of socioeconomic factors and their ability to slow the spread of COVID-19. Our team was interested in discovering the correlation between various socioeconomic factors, provided by the World Happiness Report (WHR), and how well a country dealt with the COVID-19 pandemic using data from the World Health Organization (WHO). In order to best address our research questions, we utilized data from 2019, which is the most recent data available prior to the beginning of the pandemic. The purpose of our study is to determine if there is a correlation between the number of COVID-19 cases and the factors contributing to the happiness of each country.

## Summary
Based on our analysis by aggregating 2019 COVID-19 data and the factors contributing to a country’s happiness (happiness factors), we could not establish a strong correlation between a country’s happiness factors and the number of COVID-19 cases per 100,000 population. While our analysis found correlation between some individual happiness factors and COVID-19, in aggregate, it was not a good model.

We had originally assumed that if a country is happier, it is more likely to be governed better, which should translate to a better response to the pandemic. However, our hypothesis test results establish that countries with GDP per capita above the global median do not have fewer average COVID-19 cases than countries below the global GDP per capita median. Similarly, our prediction model was not able to accurately predict COVID-19 cases using the happiness factors. We had theorized that since we were able to establish a correlation between some individual  happiness factors and COVID-19 cases, we would be able to build a sufficient prediction model,  but our model did not end up predicting COVID-19 cases on a consistent basis.
